okay we are
live I'm do a couple quick
things while this uh updates and stream
starts up
here so first
thing is we're going to take a look
at how well this does from yesterday
and
oops what's this A th000 ticks or
something 20 FPS 50
seconds do
like something like
this let's 20 FPS
right
yep and let's uh let's just put together
a little demo for
Twitter before we
start and then there'll be lots of cool
stuff to
do oops uh we have to
recompile for
let's see how this demo
looks got what I called it
today we're going to be doing uh neutral
camps the map is going to look way more
like a full DOTA map by the time we're
done with this as
well and we're going to do a few other
things along the way I'm
sure but this is going to be a fun day
and then tomorrow I'm going to try to
like get all this stuff into shape where
we can merge it back up into Dev so
it'll be easier for people to play with
I put this uh
here okay so this is the gift we just
saved that was a nice little demo let's
put this on Twitter
and then we'll get started on the
code day five
cool Julian's funny
okay so let's get started on some Dev
here
um I really like the assassin character
they all feel okay they all feel decent
enough
but we're going to have to start on the
the neutrals for
sure morning
Quinn we're doing neutrals
today I'm on a little bit early because
I've missed half of my
breakfast they swapped my order for
locks which many people would take as a
happy upgrade but I despise
locks so instead I'm here having my
coffee being
hungry
um let's see what we're going to start
with here
so I think that the neutrals actually
need a different set of
IDs right compared to
creeps
because yeah the neutrals need a
different set of IDs compared to
creeps damn as a Jew I love locks are
fire oh
dude I've been going there's uh like a
Jewish um
Bakery uh I've been going there for
breakfast every day love the pastries
they've got great Hala they've got nice
coffee I wish they had like a good some
soups or stuff but like it's awesome I
just can't do
Locks Jewish Bakery and Jewish deli are
like my two favorite damn things that I
wish we had more of
H can't do Locks though no fish for me
but yeah I actually like what I wouldn't
do to have a Jewish deli like right
around here oh
man there was a place when I was growing
up that would always have like just the
best damn chicken noodle soup the best
like pastrami sandwiches you know you
always get like a big bowl of pickles
with your food it was it was awesome
wish we had one of those around
here I think we need to have numb
neutrals
here so I'm going to just add
it actually it's Towers in Num creeps
num neutrals
I'm neutral like this is
fine oh no they all start they all end
with us so we'll keep it
consistent oh I did do agents creeps
Towers like
that
okay I don't like
that agents tow creeps
neutrals agents creeps neutrals Tower
yeah agent creeps
neutrals okay so we'll start here with
uh num neutrals
num
neutrals 100 is fine
I don't even think we need 100 right but
we'll see what idas we end up
using we'll add what's
this num
creeps neutrals
Towers row syntax but
[Music]
whatever I think I can just you can
split like this
right
yeah that's
fine so we've got our
entities now we
need we need to add neutrals into
here
creeps neutrals Towers
Co
all right now we get to start thinking
about how we're going to spawn the
neutrals
in they're going to be a little
different than the uh the creep waves I
think
cuz like the individual camps have a
respawn
timer right
we could just give the
enemies well wait there are a few ways
we can do it
right we can make all the camps just
respawn at a fixed
interval that would probably be the
simplest
so that I mean that's kind of reasonable
right it's like hey you got to go do
your clear and let's say they respawn
every few minutes so like once you
finish your clear is when you have a
window to go do other stuff in Rome
right of course in Dota it's more common
for uh compared to league right in Dota
it's way more common for the laners cuz
there's not like a dedicated jungle so
it's way more common for the laners to
want to take
camps does that change
anything I think we can just start with
the global
respawns global respawn timer
let's start
with in
reset no we don't have to spawn them in
reset we spawn them
in uh in here I
believe but we're going to need their
positions we're going to need their
positions which is a little
harder and they also need to have uh
some sort of ID to them don't
they well we'll write the uh the initial
code and then we'll we'll have to add
stuff and I'm sure we'll have to change
the map quite very uh early on here
so we also have to write AI for these
things it's actually a little bit more
work than I
thought okay so 1,00
ticks uh this is to Common we're going
to make this 3600
ticks self Dot
and it's going to be
like how do we do the do it for spawn
creep
wave Lane creep spawn
yeah so there's like a spawn function of
sorts
here and I don't think we need this like
this Lane logic we just
need
spawn
neutral idx
right and we don't need a neutral idx
it's literally just
idx okay and then we
do we do
uh this exact same sort of logic here
it's going to be neutral is get neutral
we have to add a neutral
up
here
neutral we're going to
say get
neutral if so if it's dead we
continue otherwise we update the
status and we do neutral AI so very very
similar but not quite the
same so now we need to add the spawn and
the AI function
functions
um these are actually
both pretty
easy cuz we can reuse the Waypoint
system with one Waypoint let's go back
again with the mooba how's it going it's
going very well thank you morning
uh we're going to do neutrals today
we're going to add neutrals we're going
to expand the map to look way more like
a a full scale MOBA uh we're probably
going to hopefully do a lot of
miscellaneous stuff as well we're going
to add like leveling we're probably
going to fix up like attack ranges and
stuff like that and we're going to see
where it goes from
there I'm hoping this is going to
actually start to look like a a more
full scale MOBA today I mean of course
the thing that's really going to make it
pop is as soon as I just get some art
for the map
and like maybe some animations for the
characters then it'll actually look like
a game but we're actually doing very
well on the mechanical side like it's
kind of we have a lot of the pieces in
place already just in the four short
days so I'll be around here do it all
day it'll be
fun so we've got creep AI
we need to add neutral
AI going to
do with RL in general is it better to
practice build the agent with the
ability to work out the
features rather than setting X
features
um oh I see what you're
saying kind
of I personally don't do a bunch I don't
do feature engineering type work but
what I do is uh I rep when I'm building
the game I'm keeping in mind a pretty
reasonable way of representing local
state such that I'm not producing a
bunch of garbage data right so like
these agents are going to get a low
reses 2D map of uh essentially different
IDs for different agent
types that's going to be relatively easy
for them to interpret the one thing that
will be relatively hard and may re ire
some feature engineering is uh the
positions like you might have to make
instead of giving absolute positions you
might have to do it relative to the
current agent that's the only bit of
feature engineering I might have to
consider with this feature engineering
is very effective um for solving real
problems but uh it's also something that
you can sink a lot of time into and
doesn't really Advance any of the
fundamentals
so I prefer working on more General and
easily transferable stuff like high
performance engineering techniques high
quality hyper parameter sweeps right
stuff like
that okay so neutral
AI we do not
need way
points or
Lanes or NE or even necessarily
destinations
makes sense yeah I appreciate it yeah
uh rl's going to be so much better and
in just a couple months it's going to be
crazy like it's going to get so so much
better so soon like folks don't even
know I mean between all these M I've
been developing and how fast they are
and the hyper pram sweeps and stuff
we're just going to have like a nice set
of benchmarks that train it a million
steps per second
and I mean when you have just when you
have stuff that runs a hundred times at
least faster than a few months ago that
just lets you do so much cool stuff I
can't
wait of course I don't get to wait I
have to build it
right I've also got a colleague that's
working on another environment that I'm
hoping will be ready relatively soon I
got to go help help him out with it
probably but uh yeah I want there to be
a lot of these cool environments around
problem is they take at least a week a
piece to
build okay
so what's creep Target can I reuse creep
Target I can totally reuse creep Target
right
yeah so Target pit is reuse creep
Target if Target pit is negative
then are you adding a guy for the
training or not rendering for now no the
the guey is this is a key this is a very
very important thing in reinforcement
learning uh the guey is not for train
time the guey is for people to play the
game and to understand what's going on
um agent should have access to the exact
same information that humans see on
screen sometimes a smaller crop of it
for performance reasons but the agent
should have access to the exact same
information but you do not want to
render during training it immediately
costs you 99 plus% of your
performance never worth
that only exception to this is if you
want to think of
like in something like the snake
environment that I made for instance the
observations are very very close to what
is rendered um it's just like instead of
actually rendering the pixels I have an
index for each color but it's almost
identical to the observation but that's
only because in that case like the
render ing is basically the exact same
thing as the state
anyways but yeah if I were to put it
through any sort of gooey Library you
lose all your
performance I've seen projects where
like people will write environments that
should run a million steps per second
and they'll run like 200 steps per
second it's really really
sad so you can lose more than 99% of
your performance
even okay so if you're not targeting
anything
um oh this is if you are targeting
something because it's not equal to
negative 1 yeah Target get
entity and then we literally just copy
this this thing don't we for now until
we make a more generic
one do you have different types of
minions I don't have different types of
minions yet but yesterday we added five
different hero types Ty um so we might
once I add the range checks in we might
do like different range minions at the
very least and we might stat them
differently but for now we do have
different hero types not different
minion types
yet let's see so you get
the destination L2 distance gets
attacked and you pass to the targets
okay so this is
reasonable um this is
reasonable they pass towards you
they
attack I think we'll break this out into
a function
eventually to do duplicate
code else uh and this is the one that's
going to be different so this is it's
trying to autocomplete right now from
the previous one uh this is not going to
be correct it's actually much simpler
all we have to do is creep
path
um
to creep spawn y spawn X and that's it
so if they're not aggroed to you they
will just go back to their camp and
that's the entirety of the neutral
AI um so all we really need is the spawn
function now the spawn function is hard
only because there are a lot of
hardcoded positions that's the only
reason void spawn
neutral that's the correct
PID let's see what the auto complete
does for
us
um yeah we we don't need this team
thing we do need
entity entity
neutral the
tower so that's nice
than
I think we really just have to do um
this is like self. neutral spawns right
of idx0 something like this
right like this is the only challenging
thing is that we have to write out all
the positions let me see if there's uh
stuff
here oh and then you call respawn
obviously right
let's see if let's see what this
missed so PID
type health max health
Team Lane doesn't matter Waypoint
doesn't
matter then these spawn functions yeah
this is
good
um where does it even spawn the creeps
the the positions I guess we do that
separately so I think we're already at
the point where we need to mess with the
map a whole bunch
right I really wish I could just get all
the data from the DOTA
map and just duplicate it
but or maybe there's some way we can
is there some way I can mark it on the
map
maybe that'd be really cool because then
I could just move stuff around
right and then I'd have something cool
to show as well
we can try it we can try that I think
that's worth a little bit of time
investment so what we have for this map
right now
is not this it's this
one set the opacity of this to like
60 okay so this is nice so now we can we
can edit this
um I'm trying to think how I want to go
about doing
this didn't somebody link me the DOTA
map like they had a repo or something
with the DOTA map
project let say ises anybody like this
joke oops
nope nobody likes this
joke demo looks real cool
though uh I don't know if I have the tab
maybe I can just Google
it DOTA map data
GitHub custom game for dumping DOTA map
entity coordinate
data is this
it coordinates of all maps of buildings
trees shops Etc
coordinates of
all untraversable
tiles this is actually really useful
right hey how are things going today
they're going well um I think we're
going to get a little bit stuck on good
mapping today is what's going to
happen this would be really good right
here this would be really good
tree
elevation
ENT stitch together horizontal this
is I might even just be able to take
this image unless there's is there other
entity data that I can use
welcome coded welcome to the
stream I'm currently trying to figure
out we're implementing neutrals right
now and I just added um I just added
spawn and AI stuff but I don't want to
have to go manually figure out the
coordinates of every single neutral uh I
will if I have to but it would be way
nicer if I could just get like um some
sort of nav grid type thing like this
and also get the coordinates of
everything though now that I'm looking
at this is this actually what the DOTA
map looks like I thought there's
um what about like the trees at the
bottom I guess the trees just obscure
Vision they don't like you can walk
through trees but they obscure Vision
right that's why this is all white over
here
grid nav
data coordinates of all
traversable elevation data map
Dimensions but they don't have
coordinates of like
where all the NPCs are
right process spawner
they have this process
neutrals and this goes
into map dat. Json it looks
like
read no this is a read from map data
neutral type pole
type where does it write this data
to does it not write this data
anywhere this is exactly what I
want um
is there a reason be behind attempting
to emulate DOTA does it provide external
reach into RL or is it just for
fun
so yes uh there's not a reason for me to
copy it
exactly um the reason that I'm doing
this for the map data is because I don't
want to have to draw my own map and
people already know the DOTA map that's
basically it now the reason for
attempting to do a MOA in general like
this is it's a very complicated and
historically very important environment
type for reinforcement learning open ai5
is like the coolest RL project ever and
it kind of just disappeared after uh
open AI started doing chat GPT stuff
right um it was such a cool project it
was such an awesome team I was 15t away
from them while they were building that
thing um and I wanted to do a smaller
scale version of it that we can just
train super super fast make it insanely
high performance and uh you know get a
little bit of that that type of a result
into the hands of like your everyday
researcher and
practitioner like this environment will
run a million steps per second when I'm
done with it I guarantee you that
million agent steps per
second where's this PT
data
NPC
neutral none of these files are being
opened in
um none of these files are being opened
in right mode though
right okay that sounds interesting do
you work on this full-time I work on
reinforcement learning and uh stuff in
general full-time uh I say I'm a
full-time RL
Exorcist uh trying to make reinforcement
learning sane and
consistent and uh this is just like a
maybe a twoe project for me so I've been
doing a lot of stuff on high performance
Sims lately and this looked like a fun
one to
build this is only day five and we
already have I mean you know we have
something that looks like a basic mooba
obviously there's no artwork and stuff
in it but here we got a blink strike
like this we've got five different
Heroes with three skills
each that was pretty
decent I'm trying to decide whether I
want to try to use this coordinate data
or not the thing is
like this repo is so old that I doubt it
works
yeah this repo is so so old that I doubt
it
works I mean this map I can totally use
this map file right here right I can
100% use this map file but for the
neutrals oh wait how what's the
resolution of this thing
260 I can still use
this 260 is
fine that that might even be
better let's see if there are any other
uh any other repos that have like
cool cool stuff in it what's a MOA
massive online battle arena like League
of Legends or DOTA the two really
well-known ones
uh so here's the DOTA map coordinates
repo from
before
and find W
clusters looks like it's just this one
repo
so I mean I'm not even going to waste my
time trying to run this code if it's not
already in here let me see oh it looks
like he might have committed the data
though let me
see wait wait there's hold on this could
be
good okay this actually might work then
um
because he committed the files that are
pulled from the
game what code does it run in C++ python
it's a mix of um Python and scyon on uh
it will run at c-e speed this this thing
will run at a million steps per second
when I'm done with it at least the
simulation will run at a million steps
per second um on one CPU core and the
goal is to get training to be a million
steps per second that might be hard with
this type of an environment but at the
very least I'm going to have this thing
training at several hundred, steps per
second copy map. bat
okay so it already dumps this
data and
then generate
files run text map. bat to generate the
vmap
files process data to generate Json and
images Json and images
but I think that I only need
the wait process Lanes what's
this target path
corner I don't think I need
this let's process
spawner MPC first
Waypoint oh wait do they have way points
for the uh the NPCs
uh how worth it is messing with
this okay I'm just going to download it
and I'm going to try because I think
it'll be
fun
um I'll see if I get anywhere and if if
I don't get anywhere quickly if the
scripts don't work I won't
bother but uh I at least I'm going to
use this map I know that much
so we will and I think somebody linked
this didn't uh wasn't it somebody in the
Stream who said that they wrote this or
was it a different
repo hold on wait I did star it didn't
I oh wait this one's more
recent yeah yeah this is the one that
somebody linked me is this
better hero
detector DotA map.png
this is a nice
map
um DOTA map crowded.
PNG rus.com
requirements
Source models
location just
detect
units dire POV
live simple bloated
hero detect
units masks the mini map
pixels I don't think that this has data
files in it though does it for
uh yeah this doesn't have data files in
an easily readable
[Music]
format so I think the other one might
have more in it for now unless that guy
I forget who it was uh comes back and
has ideas on how we can use
this
um yeah let's let's try the other one
for now just because it has the files in
it where is
it uh so
big
repository new to coding and learning
C++ is this uh language a good starting
language you can learn to code in
anything um C++ gives you lots of good
fundamentals I hate programming in C++
because the error messages are really
obnoxious and it's a very slow Lang
anguage to develop in though you can
write very high performance things in it
um I mean I started in Java Java was God
awful um I've coded in C++ I've done C
I've done JavaScript I've done a million
other things um I like I like python the
most but and a lot of stuff these days
is written in Python but you end up
having to do other things when you need
performance um
I think C++ will teach you a bunch of
fundamentals lowlevel fundamentals uh if
you find yourself getting bored and just
want to do some simple projects fast
though in order to get a feel for Stuff
something like python is going to be a
good way to do that mind you that pretty
much all the knowledge is transferable
so like if you if you know the
programming fundamentals and you know
C++ like it'll take you a few weeks to
get com fortable with python that's
about
it doesn't work the other way coming
from python to anything else is pretty
painful C++ is a good starting line
because it's how close to how computer
actually
works most motivating thing is having an
actual problem you want to
solve yeah Roman my one caveat is
like getting like getting bored because
it takes too damn long to build anything
is a real problem right um absolutely
teaches you fundamentals how long does
it take like how long does it take to
learn the syntax of a language not very
long how long does it take to learn to
program well in any given language a
Lifetime
right I mean like you can look at
projects that people have built after
you know so much time or so much
experience with uh with programming but
you know
it's it's like saying how long does it
take to to learn English like what how
long does it take to say some basic
stuff or how long does it take to uh you
know to write war in peace or whatever
whoops Okay so we've got
this
um now we've got map dat.
Json I think that this is supposed to be
well this is python 2 which is
awkward process neutrals what
happens oh did they not include this
shoot I figured it would be in the map
data wait
wait is this not
it neutral
type hold
on what is
this what is this repo
here okay so they have the neutral camps
in
here right
oh but this is just the names isn't
it
wait k of
name okay this is
gigantic see
you what the heck kind of confused as to
what is going on here like if I have the
data that I need or
not
um list has no attribute
Keys oh is this it
wait
name 1 2 3
name I think these are the chords I need
aren't
they it looks like these are the spawn
positions of the uh the
minions right
so all I would need to do is figure out
how to convert these coordinates
right all I need to do is figure out how
to convert these coordinates
of course we still don't have like their
health and stuff
right but I could make like a config of
some sort right I could make like a
config file and I could start it by
exporting this
stuff let's try
that so first of all
here um
save what do I want
yaml Json
okay
so data equals
this then what we do is we'll
do
uh for
okay well we have these Keys now right
it' be nice to have this in a yaml to be
honest yeah let's do
[Music]
okay and then what we'll do
is we'll do uh Camp
name K and name
Camp
name Camp
data
or okay
if
um e
n 2
three well let's not do
that
split Camp data e
how is this again I don't know what the
data looks like hold on
subject
name KV in subject. items K is
name
continue Camp data K is V this is good
and then we do like
this
whoops
okay start a
pend
uh we don't need this anymore
process okay so this is what we wanted
right now we've got uh we've got all our
data in
here we will grab
we're going to make this an INT as well
convenience and what is the DOTA
coordinate
system what
z z is the center of the
map the map is this many
units okay
so it looks like they're using the
negative the negative
system so
we could copy the
we could copy the coordinate system it's
going to make the grid partitioning a
little harder though if we do
that that going to make it substantially
harder uh we could also
we can divide these by what is this 128
or
something this is
138 that did not
work so 138 by 130 I
guess and then we got to divide by two
again I
think so divide by
two
69 65 69 by 65
so I think we have
to let me
see X and Y
[Music]
over what's
this x is the bigger
one so divide by
69 and then we also have
to add 69 I
think and then this is 65
let's see what this looks
like okay so these are still not quite
scaled uh I see a 136 here this is too
big 119 134 okay so this did not quite
work to
scale I wonder why not and also the Y's
are uh still
negative so that absolutely did not work
to
scale oh I think I needed to not divide
by two
right yeah
duh wait I'm very
confused yeah there's no way to that I
okay I'm just doing it
stupid this should
be
138 and this
is
130 let's see if that gives us good
yaml uh I'm still seeing
okay so they're all positive
now oh I I understand um I had to add
right I had to add 138 over two
okay + 138 / 2
2 and now if uh does this look like good
scale
data everything should be positive and
less than
128 which if we're looking at
it it
is so that's actually not very bad we
managed to get ourselves accurate data
for all of the camps
right for
M
MOBA
okay and we also want the map while
we're here don't
we little bit surprised as to how they
have the rendering done
here grid nav like this grid nav is
really good but it's the wrong it's not
a reasonable
size
what so where's the
render process
data to
generate okay so process data.
Pi grid width grid
height where's grid width and grid
height
okay so they're dividing it into
64 by 64 chunks it looks like
right 64x 64
chunks so maybe that's the size of the
map that we need to
have that's very big
but if that's actually the resolution of
the DOTA map we can use
that so we're going to have to redo this
we're goingon to have to redo a bunch of
stuff I think
um I'm going to start by just taking the
image and rescaling it for now but we're
going to we're going to resize the map
uh correctly afterwards so we're going
to also just copy this uh what is
this map do something where's the image
Doc's
guide grid nav.png
image grid.png
oh
and is there a quick
resize size image I had a library for
this
before convert
where's the convert command
from it's image
magic that's fine
wait is it where did I see it was 320
by
properties 26 260 by 260
okay that's interesting that this is
symmetrical we will
umt
this actually that's really close to 128
by isn't it yeah that's really really
close to 128 12
256 so I actually don't even need this
we're just going to resize it by
half okay so what we're going to do
is we're going to
do instead of DOTA bit map we're going
to
do map for
I think we have to take two pixels off
right like this
right so I have to fix syon
errors what the heck happened
here oh it the set up fine
we'll fix some scon bugs real quick this
is just the initial uh the neutral stuff
that I
added uh
411 reap this
is
neutral
neutral neutral
oops and almost done and just a few
little uh omissions it looks
like get neutral we don't have a
get we need a get neutral function we go
here just move stuff around get
neutral and
um I think what we said we wanted to do
here was this is going to be idx plus
numb agents
right and then this is going to
be plus agents plus
creeps and this one's going to be
plus n creeps plus num
neutrals okay there we
go
and I want to render this actually not
with human mode I want to just see
above yeah this is going to start
getting very cool very quickly once
we're loading in actual Maps
uh I assume this is stuck in an infinite
Loop somewhere
so I'm going to comment the neutral AI
for now since we don't really need
it we haven't put added any positions
either
well that's interesting The View counts
on X are broken it looks
like hold on is that the
case this
is oh okay yeah there there's a view
count cool it's just not sync to
restream for some
reason I thought it wasn't live or
something weird
broken
um let's
run what the heck is happening why is
this so slow to start up
something is like
looping where do we have
while oh uh I know why it's the the the
creeps
okay we're going to have to uh redo the
spawn positions I'm
sure yeah so
respawn is this the only yeah this is
the only wall
loop we're just going to do this for now
and hopefully not forget to remove it
this is going to mess up our
observations
apparently very
odd spawning PID
let's see what it's getting stuck
spawning zero
apparently
okay stuck spawn pit
zero
really well we'll
uh we'll leave this in here I guess but
um maybe maybe the grid is not the shape
that I think it is let's
see no it's got to be the shape that I
think it is right oh it might be just
all walls I don't know what this image
is encoded
as let's look
here what does it look like in the uh
the
file ah white is
so I think it's it's just flipped game
map equal equal zero as
well this going to be so
cool this is going to be really just
ridiculously
cool oh look at
this holy hell
[Music]
dude that is
sweet look at
that it doesn't seem like it even fully
loaded it correctly but it's still so
cool
man holy
there should be um a strip of black over
here shouldn't
there hold
on 128 by 128
why does this say
zero right here there's a black isn't
there oh yeah black is supposed to be
wall so this should be
fine let's see
why is right here why is there
no there's no strip
of of anything there I clearly see it
right here you
know I get the right
file
wait looks the same
image grid nav
yeah map let's say
1001 is
zero wait maybe I just cut it off
I don't think so
but 0 0
0 but wait it is supposed to be zero
isn't
it there is
black
so wait what
why is there no wall here
what does this look like over
here there's this big border around it
right oh I know why it's because I'm
clipping it in the view
stupid just don't be stupid
yeah I'm clipping Vision
off forgot about
that here way
better there we
go that's some
DOTA yeah that's some DOTA right
there we got some stuff to fix with it
but that's definitely some DotA
that's basically
perfect now we need uh other positional
data I guess
so why don't we just use this for
everything right let's go if we can go
get the tower
positions
um and like maybe even the creep spawn
right I'm going to take a quick
screenshot of this for
Twitter for
there we
go for
isn't there processed Towers in here
somewhere I thought I saw a processed
Towers when I was doing this before
Lane's neutral
spawners is it map
data for
so it looks like they have um this
process map data
here there is um
something was this
it no
84 bottom of this file here
so I think inside of this map data
file we have our Towers
right oh yeah there is a tower key down
here
right key is trigger
multiple old type trigger name
they've got Fort and
[Music]
Fountain where did I uh where did I do
this oops
map data Json yeah here
well that's a lot of Tower
data literally has their help and
stuff h
what is a fort there's Fort and
Barracks as well
one second
coded RL which we always mean deep RL is
a sub area of deep
learning in which your data does not
come from um a dis like a fixed data set
as in supervised learning your data
comes from a simulator it comes from
something that you're interacting with
so the data you get is dependent on what
you do inside the simulator like what
buttons you press in the game determine
what you see next in the
game and this is algorithmically hard
for different reasons but also there's
just like a ton of infrastructure and
Engineering around you know getting
stuff to play nice with simulators um
and in research we like to have really
high performance simulators so that we
can you know iterate on a bunch of
experiments fast and develop new methods
and such such that when we go have to
deal with a a slower simulator you know
we kind of understand how everything
works and we can make progress there
much more quickly without having to run
as many experiments on the slow
simulators
[Music]
so we'll start with just the towers I
guess we'll do
does it have a
name it does have a
name where's this
NPC DOTA
Tower okay so the learning aspect of RL
is partly a blat box not
really same as other areas of deep
learning algorithms are slightly
different but it's all like back
propagation based
here's the learning
code
so here is data we've already collected
from the environment previously we go
back and forth between collecting data
and training on
it um so here we're running the
network this is where we have you know
some losses that we calculate as you
would in supervised
learning there are a few more losses
than normal normal an RL but nothing big
and here's your normal lost backwards
zero
grad same as the rest of deep learning
I think all we have to do
is we get rid of this
right why do people say the hidden layer
in neural Nets are Black
Box
um generally people who know what
they're talking about don't say that
um that's like kind of an old
perspective on stuff or like a naive
perspective like yeah you can't ask it
to explain its reasoning but that
doesn't mean that we don't have tools
for understanding you know how these
things are learning at least
partially that that interpretation was
like popular in maybe like 2016 or
whatever
but things have gotten a bit
better we also we have lots of ways to
visualize how decisions are taken
especially in reinforcement learning it
just it takes a little bit of work as
well because your network doesn't speak
English this run
well yeah it's a easier to keep up when
it's your full-time job right really way
more than my full-time
job must be
[Music]
integers what did I do oh this
is it or sub dick
wait
why does it do origin like this this is
so
gross um it should know to just
like
there I mean yeah this
is I actually don't even keep up all
that well with recent literature
um I keep up obviously with like major
advancements in
RL um but yeah this is definitely this
is what I do like all the
time substantially more than a full-time
job
really okay so we've got the
camps perfect so we've got all the
towers
and all the
camps we've got a little naming
convention and these positions all look
good as
well we have this copy function
somewhere
yeah
uh data do
gaml and now what we're going to do is
we're going to load in
entity
data or was it entity data
path data do
yl
yaml okay so now we've got this entity
data which is very nice
and this is a dictionary but we can
still just pass this to
syon because it's only going to be used
on uh reset I
believe so this is perfectly fine we got
entity
data in
fact we're going to do this will be
self. entity data
HS
data this is is dict
entity like
this and we can just add this as a dict
entity
data and we'll do you know
self. entity
data uh these way points are going to be
removed very soon I'm hoping
so
spawn
Tower so
z
z tier
one and this is is going to
be
Tower or is it what is it it's like DOTA
bad or is it
good the good guys what the heck did
they do this yeah good guys DOTA Good
Guys Tower one
one uh let's do
top was it y comma X I think
obviously we're going to have to come up
with
some some
Loop we actually probably can just do
that now right
Good Guys
Tower bad guys
Tower
or
tier wait one
two Tower four
wait t one
two bot mid top B
midtop is there a tier four that's not
in
mid wait tier
three wait [__] bot midtop bot midtop
bot midtop and then there there's a
bottom and a top tower for tier for four
and there's no tier four
mid oh right that was are the I think
those are the okay
cool range
one
five
four and
top mid
bot hello
welcome we are currently attempting
to load position data from DOTA so that
I don't have to manually map everything
to like comparable
positions trying to get the towers to be
in correct positions and then the
neutral camps will follow shortly
thereafter
okay so Tower
name there's no tier four
mid so it's
prefix tier suffix like this right
spawn
Tower
it's how do I use puffer lib program for
Pokemon Red AI uh there's the Pokemon
Red Discord there's also discord.gg
puffer the Pokemon Red Discord has some
resources in there um the uh Pokemon Red
uh you need the latest poke gy link key
or bet can help you out in the Discord
for that um as well as a a valid ROM
file they can also help you out with
that um and then it's just bound to the
demo there's you know the demo. py you
can just run it with d-n Pokemon and uh
there are some optimal train settings
that the guys have figured out for that
as well so I would just add link key or
at uh bet adsorption or whatever ever in
the uh the chat or that guy any of the
main contributors and they will get you
set up with
that and hopefully puffer Li trains real
fast fun fact with puffer lib that's one
of the uh Pokemon's one of the projects
that we're sponsoring compute for and
the Pokemon experiments all pretty much
run on these
boxes in my garage
what editor are you using this is
neovim this is just uh neoven with the
auto complete by super Maven it's real
nice
X oops X team
[Music]
tier
uh was
it tier
and then it's like ntid data Tower name.
y.x X Plus equal 1 very
nice what language this is uh this is
syon so not quite python it's
syon this is going to run Ultra
fast about a 100 times faster than it
would run if it were just python
okay let's see if we can get this to
compile and uh I want to get the towers
to be in a reasonable
spot where is
it what is is syon used for differently
than
python uh scon compiles to C so you can
write c-s speed native Loops uh Native
c-speed
loops and it is generally
ludicrously uh ludicrously nice for that
side of
things when I write high performance
simulators the core of them is always
going to be in
scyon and uh it plays really nicely with
python compared to like C++ or other
things look up
damage else nope
else is syon similar to python to learn
almost
identical uh it's really just python
with added types now if you don't
understand like low-level programming
like if you don't understand um um C C++
style programming you're not going to be
able to get the full power out of it
um but even without that it's still very
very similar it's a very easy learning
curve from python though again it helps
to have done stuff in other in lower
level
languages but hey there's a reason I'm
using this instead of just like native
C++
right it's also really good for being
able to blend python code with uh with C
code because anything uh any valid
python code is also valid in cython it's
just that if you take certain additional
steps the performance critical chunks of
it will run
fast out of
bounds
um how would you downlo download it and
what operating system would you need
sion's just a pip
install I think it works on Windows but
uh definitely works on you know whatever
OS uh you know whatever Unix or Linux
flavor this is currently running in
WSL inside of uh the puer tank
containers that I provide
one second let me fix the
AC
okay out of bounds on Buffer axis zero I
think I just have the wrong number of
towers right
pip install scon yeah should
be I mean there's a whole documentation
page sion's got pretty good
docks how many towers are
there I think it's 20 right
22 do you think you could run it with vs
yeah you can run whatever editor doesn't
matter
yes Cod to work oh this is so nice look
at this you see these dark blue ones
these are the
towers why is there a tower
here okay I have to fix that but like
why is there a tower am I just
misremembering
DOTA these don't look like they're in
the right spot the mid ones
are do I have Y and X flipped or
something hold on
love me some
scyon YX
right I'm going to take a screenshot
just so I can look at it without it
crashing on me we'll fix the crash in a
bit
I see why it's crashing immediately
there's a thing spawning in the top left
corner that's not supposed to be
there is there a GitHub for all of this
yeah this is in puffer Leb I'm currently
working on a random Dev Branch
it's so it's in puffer lib finally give
the puffer a star on your way in helps
me out a whole bunch it's really all I
ask right now I'm in in config with this
MOA that I'm working on this also has
simul like a couple other simulators I'm
working on if you want something more
stable the dev branch is pretty good and
it should have a few nice things in it
uh I generally recommend I wrote this a
few weeks ago and I think that this is a
really good scon crash course for most
people uh so it's in ocean ocean puffers
first party M's this snake environment
here it has this sea snake pix so this
is 229 lines of scon that is the full
implementation of snake that runs at 14
million steps per
second uh and it's very simple it looks
very very similar to python code it's
just you add a few additional types to
it I tried to make this very nice and
easy to
follow so what what is happening here
um sorry for questions still
self-learning through YouTube another
free
stuff I don't want to pay for the GitHub
do I just clone it and then the link yep
that's
all if you're brand brand new to
everything probably just um know syon
does add some additional complexity so
you can probably play around with some
stuff in Python
first but
uh yeah
so something weird is happening with
these towers huh
because tower
Tower is it a different coordinate
system oh it might be a different
coordinate system I might just
be 0 0 is the
center uh and the other one is bottom
left corner the map I
believe so I'm using the top left corner
of the map how would that change
things I've been coding in Python for a
few
months very good oh welcome
pretty confused with what's wrong
here let me go look at the DOTA
map yeah this is what I thought it was
right so you've got
one two three it's very simle simple
right good
afternoon we loaded up uh the DOTA
map I'm trying to get the towers placed
correctly loading uh the positions from
the game
files I think I have one of the
transforms wrong or something so the mid
Towers look like they are
correct but then why are there
no wait one two
three why the other Towers is not in the
right
spot actually these mid ones are maybe
like they're maybe offset a little bit
but they're not bad
right maybe I just should open up the
file and see if the positions I
calculated look
reasonable
uh
so bad guys bot
one this y chord is too small
so I think I have to flip
it does this make any sense if I flip it
poer
lib poer
lib
MOA
neutrals okay
I forgot to
okay how did you extract that map data
yeah there's I found there's a
repo no it's not simple
um somebody there's like this random
repo devil SK
okay they've
got some very old
scripts um from like 7 point
something
but they also have the extracted game
files already in it so I can just use
those game files and just fix up their
scripts a little
bit but I am not entirely sure
how stuff is um how stuff is being
oriented like I think this has to be
that
right is the map actually
nonsquare so apparently it's nonsquare
but I couldn't
tell okay what is going wrong here like
here I'll screenshot it
again
so the mid Towers look reasonable
right and
then Towers over here
are they just
shifted what's at the top left I I'm
spawning stuff wrong which is what's
crashing the game um that's why I
screenshotted it so that we could see
it
um wait actually one two these are in a
line here right these towers are in a
line is
this these look like they're this looks
like these are supposed to be the top
towers and they're just
shifted
maybe and then this one here looks like
it got moved because this should be down
here so I could have just scaled stuff
wrong right
looks very possible that I just scaled
stuff
wrong so what's the correct
scaling what if you give them different
colors PL on the placement order
make some guesses as how did they got
transformed
wrong
yeah um let me think how to do
that it's kind of annoying to do that in
the current because it's like the towers
are being placed in
scyon hold
on I I just want to look up one thing
first which is the transformation I got
I got the numbers from this random
site coordinate
system coordinate grid
is XYZ
crazy idea why I bother
extracting overlaying the images and
eyeballing
it
so it's because I have to figure this
out anyways because I also have to do
the neutral
camps and those are going to be
substantially more
painful so it's kind of worth just
figuring out the
transformation but yeah that's why and
like if I want to add stuff in the
future as well like it's I figured it
would be the easiest thing is going to
be to just have a yaml file that has all
of the game data in
it so if I want to add like a bounty
Rune I can add a bounty
Rune this also makes it one to one with
DOTA
which I mean unless valve decides that
they hate this project which I doubt
given that they went with the open ai5
thing right
I think this is going to be pretty nice
let's see what the coordinates say so it
says the bottom Tower
is according to
this bottom Tower is at
78 what about manually ballp parking one
or two towers and comparing them to the
that's what I'm doing right now
yeah that's what I'm doing right
now so we
have
11478 so we have actually several that
are on like right around 114
here so these should be all in a
line which I guess are
these right there's one here there's one
there there's one there
actually if you look at
this hold on look right
here right here
here these look like they're just
shifted
right how long does it take the game to
crash not very
long I mean the ball parking is it's
very close right these are the 113s look
I have right here I've got three towers
that are at on this line these are the
three towers that are in a line right
here which one has like a really big x
coordinate on this
I'm not seeing anything that has a
coordinate that would go to right here
right oh did I for wait how many Towers
am I spawning it looks like they're too
many right did I just forget to comment
out the spawn code on the other
on that might have been
it does this only have wait does this
have only game data Towers or does it
still have the
ones yeah that's what I was just yeah
checking there's a little bit of a delay
on the stream I wish I could make the
delay shorter I think there's like a 15
I don't know how long we could time
it well this is
commented but wait maybe when it
respawns maybe like there's
still on
Tower oh wait what's
this yeah in the reset right here right
I had it put
twice okay so let's this will be cleaner
now and then I think it's just a scaling
issue from
here 8 to 10 second
delay isn't that just about right for
YouTube I didn't know I thought YouTube
always has a bit of the delay I thought
twitch is the one that's
usually uh like really low latency I
could change it in my settings maybe if
there's a an
option boom
twitch is really low
yeah there's still way too many Towers
in here aren't
there oh wait the the towers are
flipped
right yeah yeah yeah the towers are
flipped mid towers are going across the
river okay so we just got to fix the
trans form and fix the
transform I'm going to be
fun would that happen if I flipped the
Y yeah that would happen if I flipped
the Y
right let's try this
huh is it still
flipped why is it still
flipped plus 130 one
over two
right uh
[Music]
process
yaml so let's see the mid
Towers maybe X and y are
swapped could be X and Y are
swapped I think that their coordinate is
starting from the
bottom I'm surprised that it didn't the
thing that I just did didn't fix
it cuz okay first of all this is
definitely wrong right right uh the
bottom one Tower one for the bottom is
not at y
51.7 so I think we definitely have to
flip the y-coordinate
right because the DOTA coordinate system
is uh bottom left is 0
0 so I think we have to flip that
coordinate so let's uh let's redo that
okay and now
bad guys Tower to Mid
is that looks like where the tower to
the mid Tower too should be bad guys
Tower one
mid that looks correct to
me Tower three
[Music]
mid that looks correct to
me let me see X comma
y
yeah okay so let's now make sure this is
getting to neutrals.
yaml ah data.
yls yes my number my number system is
top left it's just row column uh format
so that you don't have to do extra
math perfect I think we got it
now these are offset a little bit wrong
right like one
two tier one tier two tier
three the offsets are a little wonky but
it's very
close right
like this one especially these like this
line of towers here
is is off just a little
bit so close
though let's take a look at the
uh the DOTA M I haven't checked this in
a while
for
comparison so this one is supposed to
be this is the bridge it's supposed to
be like here it's just a little bit
off this one is supposed to
be like right here and this one so so
it's just a little bit
off well our mid and bottom actually
correct
yeah this is pretty much spot
on this one is not right isn't it unless
the map is changed isn't this Tower
supposed to be back
here and this one's supposed to be back
this
way mid lane in your black and blue
looks really wide
um well that's just cuz trees aren't
being drawn
right so if you look here right you have
this as an obstacle there's a wall here
but then all this is
trees so if you don't draw the trees
in yeah I could draw the trees in by the
way that's like a thing we could
potentially do um I just don't don't
know I don't know if I want to be
implementing Vision cover like that
Vision cover is kind of
hard we'll see this is a cool project
though let's just Implement a MOA from
scratch why
not so I think this is something with
our scaling right
in that case they all look shifted to
the right eight or so
squares eight or so
squares well this isn't eight or so
squares right the the ones on the right
don't seem shifted that much
this lines
up tier one Tower bottom
left well yeah these are
shifted and the this is shift like these
could be shifted but like why over here
do these look
good right
I mean my transform could be
wrong here let's look at the transform I
did and I'll try to explain maybe you
can catch a bug on this for me that'd be
nice um I think it's just the transform
right
so what I did here is um they give you
coordinates that are from the center so
their coordinate system that they're
using for this is
uh it's like a 2d centered coordinate
system so up is positive right is
positive but it's Center is 0
so uh I computed the scaling
factor with uh as
138 and then
130 though it's a little odd because it
is a square map um so I'm not sure I
have that perfectly
correct and then I flip the
Y the spacing on the Y turrets
correct that's another thing we can
check this one's about
right could the 130 and 138 be swapped
138 it the map is supposed to be wider
than it is tall
but the thing is like the PNG that I get
of the map is actually
Square
so I could maybe make the I could make
them both
138 or both
130 well let me think so the
the map is 200 and we should be able to
compute this actually because hold
on DOTA to Map
size approximately 11,000 by 11,000
what's it exactly
this doesn't say 11,000 by 11,000 this
says 17 Whatever by
1600 which is not quite a square I have
no idea where they're counting from
though so what factor do we get from
this
664 wait
17 divided by 260 is the size of the
PNG gives a 67 scaling
Factor
um but but then what I wanted to do is I
wanted to make it to size 128 right so
this is how I computed it I did like
this and I got the
138 and then I did
16643 and I got
130 well this website could just be
wrong right
they could both be
130 that would give you a shift of about
eight cells wouldn't
it and then the 130 would squish it let
me try 130 for
both I bet you that fixes it I bet the
website's just wrong
X scaler to one yeah
that's pretty funny how we both get this
at like the exact same
time okay
see this even
worse or is this the same
I think these are the same I don't know
if this actually got applied
how is it the
same that doesn't make sense to
me oh I didn't do it in the I did it in
the wrong
spot I did it in the wrong spot I did it
to the new I Didn't Do It To The
Towers God so
careless all right here we go boom fixed
we win we win
DOTA we win the
game
boom perfect
here you go here's your map the map is
good
I
Y has anybody ever noticed that uh this
is actually the perfect game for puffer
fish because the map already has a fish
on it right here's the eye here's like
the mouth here it's got two fins right
it's already already got a fish it's got
a
tail literally the perfect game for a
puffer
fish DOTA
fish the puffer Moa
I guess we get to do neutral creeps now
huh logo basically draws
itself were you around for the
continuous control
environment I have an environment where
the objective of the agents you have you
control a bunch of particle agents and
the goal is for them to fill in the
puffer lib
logo so you get like 4,000 agents that
have to draw out puffer lib
I don't think I got a gift of that one
that one's actually kind of hard to
solve but
uh have anything cool
here oh yeah we have like environments
like this right like continuous control
like Point environments like this
come back to these in a bit but you know
they're fun they also run like well over
10 million steps per second so that's
nice okay
uh
highx so what we're going to do now is
we're going to do spawn neutrals
and we have to go make neutral
spawns float array neutral
spawns the four
how many neutrals are
there neutral Camp good so this is four
plus 4
8 six uh wait 8 12
20 uh
36 36 * 2 72
neutrals total creeps there are
72 creeps
nice so what we're going to do is we're
just going to do
prefix neutral
Camp uh so four team in range of
two and actually we can uh
or team in range two uh if
team prefix
equals uh was is
it neutral Camp
good neutral Camp bad
in
range
110 come on go full Dynamic and make a
team name array uh this is getting
stored in a numpy array we're not going
to do any string processing so once this
gets it's actually going to get stored
in a m map so this will be stored in a c
native data structure so this is slow
but this doesn't matter this is just on
a knit
oh
prefix yep and then what we do
is ID x equal
z
e
five or neutral
entity data of neutral
name
neutral I meant so you don't have the
branching for team name oh yeah yeah
yeah we'll clean this up this is this is
a garbage code I'm well aware this is Le
garbage code Le garbage code complete
Mee
complet a garbage
code
oops I'm under no Illusions
there okay so
spawn neutral
what's the Sig on this it's just
idx uh we don't need spawn neutral we
actually just want was it neutral
pause neutral
spawns
so s
do numpy do zer
neutrals
2 and then what we do is self.
neutral
spawns Y and X we set y and
x and we have entity
neutral don't know if we have anything
to render these guys yet but let's
see neutral Camp bad one
neutral
Camp oh it's evil not
bad that's so funny how they named it
like they didn't name it radiant and
dire like internally it's just dieser
the bad guys dieser the good guys that's
how you make the video
game okay well this was something it
just didn't it just crashed really fast
I'm going to try to catch
it I caught it hold on
okay so it's not actually drawing
them it's not
consistent yeah that's
funny
uh hold on I need to figure
out okay one second
okay we're good
um let me see
so I'm trying to remember where I was
drawing stuff
here
the it should be here
right asset map of
tile and then asset map
gets okay so here's the asset
map and when you move a neutral what
happens hold on
uh so right
here agent type is neutral
and then you set it to agent
type wait which
is seven so we need to add a color for
neutrals I
believe let's rebuild in the mean
time I don't know why I have all these
snake comments
are we even using
these no we're not even using these are
we oh we're using them there
potentially okay well we'll just make uh
we'll make it green
okay so this is
is it runs now but I'm not seeing the
neutrals not seeing the neutrals
yet one two three four six s
oops log when it's rendering that's what
I'm trying to
do oh wait this is not going here
this is the wrong one it because there's
the the other renderer but it should
still have colors I defined colors for
it
already uh though it looks like this
asset map will need to be updated so we
can do
seven no wait this doesn't need to be
updated that's dumb
um where's a render
function yeah right here
so we can just put a break point in here
me
grid 0 one two 3 and
four okay so now we have 0o through six
but no
sevens why does it take so long to
build uh well that was the run time and
it didn't take so long to build it the
screen just didn't Refresh on my uh
breakpoint so I had to press enter so it
would show the break point that's
all syon does take a quick uh scon takes
a hot second
to to build though for
sure spawn
neutral entity type is assigned entity
neutral is assigned
spawn and we forgot to call reset so
that would probably do it
so this is how long scon takes to build
uh I'm not compiling multi- thread
because when you compile multi-thread it
screws up your error messages I
found this less than 10
seconds really it would be nice if it
were instant but
well this looks like it's infinitely
looping to
me
right yeah it's definitely infinitely
looping oh it's
slow I mean you're a project this size
should be compiling in a quarter of a
second at most
really it should be compiling too fast
for you to
notice that would be the
ideal but the thing is okay a file this
small this transpiles to 30,000 lines of
C so there is
that should be pre comp iling as you're
making
changes it would be really nice if it
did pre-compile like that in the
background but I don't have that set
up yeah oh yeah if you want to see here
Coba
doc 47,000 lines as it turns out I was
wrong and it's just like tons and tons
of
C look at all these garbage macros
if we go to 5,000 we're defining tons of
garbage pie objects literally just all
the pie objects with mangled crappy
names 10,000 now we've got all these
crazy checks a completely unreadable
garbage
looks like the source code of a
Squarespace
site
yeah
look if somebody wanted to just like
really make good tooling around this it
would be awesome but
like like the only thing with good good
tooling around it these days is like
Ruster
Zig and neither of those help me right
so so this is kind of the best thing out
there for what I'm
doing not even kind of it is the best
thing out there by a massive massive
margin uh so let's see
why apparently the spawns are like
slightly off or
something what if I just do
this we'll see where it's like it's
failing
cuz I think we're just slightly off
maybe doesn't even
render really
hd.
type
break and good documentation yeah
well I mean honestly how often do you
use the docs of a language
well this is just like spawning tons of
things it looks like
right it just like spawned them all
here I
guess so I'm
assuming ah right here this respawn
function
wait did you get my message
about a background
in.net no I think YouTube ate the
comment I did not get that
one okay so this function is not
designed
for uh this function is not designed for
neutrals it looks like
so we can just get rid of this get rid
of
this and the only thing we really need
here
is oops
Health oh we're
good neutral Max Mana
zero
aoom oh we forgot uh we killed the
respawn function as
well I don't have link filtering or
anything enabled so it must be the
YouTube link filter I know twitch lets
you post links by default
um but yeah that's weird
well this thing right here looks like a
neutral but it should be there should be
green so I don't know what this is doing
here
print and we'll have to
um potentially we can even just use
dota's creep way points I assume it has
some
right I just move to next
Waypoint uh okay so right here it's not
actually these positions did not get
updated so
neutral
spawns self. neutral
spawns we forgot to increment idx here
that'll do
it it's going to be real cool when this
is uh when we have the neutrals
in oh yeah there we
go boom
look at
that is that where the neutrals are
supposed to
be they look pretty far apart from each
other aren't these supposed to be like
clusters of of neutrals that are pretty
close or is this how they are
well here's a map that has where the
camps are
kind of odd
right so
this is actually pretty good this is
what we
want
um so like this one
there there ones up top that aren't
being caught at all right small neutral
camps how many are
there 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 so this according to the thing that I
have it only has 10 neutral
camps
um fact it only gives me one through
nine so I think it gives me nine neutral
camps so could just be doing
the medium and larges or
something but in that case I should
still have a neutral camp like up here
up
here so it doesn't look like the
positions are
correct let's see how we are recording
the
positions I'm doing y comma X right
dot dot
slash
DOTA so in process neutrals we
have well this is wrong right here so
this should be
minus right so y-coordinate is
definitely wrong this is 130 over
two minus
this I don't think that's going to fix
it on its
own but we will run
this process neutrals
where's that move command
so that actually does improve
it I
think no not this one
so this
Camp is like
here there's a camp here which has stuff
in it I'm not getting the camps up
top why are they in this color also they
shouldn't be in this
color I making it hard to tell them
apart from other stuff
entity
neutral agent type equal
neutral neutral is
seven wait hold on
0 1 2 3 four five six
so
yeah okay well that's a little better at
least
now we can tell for sure that we are
drawing
neutrals so here here's the
map clear some missing location data
yeah but like why are they spread out
this
far
right like this Camp right
here why are it spawn spread out this
far these don't look to
me not a DOTA play do they have slightly
random spawn
locations oh this could be the box
maybe these could be the the spawn this
could be a spawn box you're right right
because it uh it listed like one two
three four in the data so these could
very well be the spawn
boxes so let's think of it that way if
these are the spawn boxes and obviously
it didn't draw the corners that are over
you know another thing
yeah they're all perfect rectangles
um are they in the right locations
though I can't tell if they're quite
right or not actually where did our
Towers
go aren't we supposed to have Tower
data where did where did the other
Towers
go I don't see them anymore
the
heck we call that a regression
yeah I didn't change the SP the tower
code did I
on right
spawn
Tower was it really that bad is that
what really what
happened yeah the towers are not
there towers are just not
there what if I do this
nice looks very DOTA welcome iron
bound iron from the uh the Pokemon Red
Discord long time no see
okay so when I don't spawn the
neutrals it works so I assume that I'm
overwriting the ideas somehow
right yeah I've got to just be
overwriting the the
IDS so num
neutrals agents creeps neutrals Towers
is how I have this specified
agent creeps
numb agents creeps neutrals Towers yep
wait 9 * 4 is
36 m 2 is 72 no my math is
right what's
this in PID is idx plus num
agents num Towers num creeps this is a
spine
okay I'm going to be right back
uh I will be right
back and then we're going to fix this
and we'll change it so that it spawns in
spawn boxes instead of spawning in a
specific
spot
e
e e
okay let's uh let us figure out what is
wrong with this now
um so these neutral spawns first of all
are just not
correct um
are these boxes different sizes or can I
just like do a A plus minus
thing they are slightly different
sizes but I think I could also just do
like a plus minus thing
right I was going to pick the center and
then I was going to just randomly spawn
the agents uh nearby like within like a
three
radius or two radius or something like
that
I could do that
right
no that'll be simpler as
well so let's uh let us do that
not all of those are boxes I don't think
they're all boxes aren't they which one
isn't a
box top
left well this one it it didn't fill in
this corner cuz this corner was a wall
right and then like presumably this one
yeah you can see the bottom corner here
so it didn't fill in this top Corner
because it overlaps this pixel
so there are a few of them like that
like this one is also a box it's just
this pixel
here so I think that they're all boxes
I'm pretty
sure
[Music]
mhm
so okay so now we have
subdi gives you
camp and then and now what we can do is
we can just do
top left
equals uh
subdi
One X subject to one
X bottom
right this is
four I'm imagining it's going to be four
right we can check it and then what we
do is Camp data
this
x what the
heck
um top left
and we also have
to Norm these right so it's this
[Music]
over this one
is like this right 13 over2
minus okay
so this is now top
X
plus
this
yeah that looks good to me
now we get Center
points should that be y before
X
where uh it's a dictionary so dictionary
is order invariant it's access by Keys
it's a hash
map yeah
I forget that not everybody devs in
Python I don't know python gets a lot of
hate I really like
python hate the performance but hey
that's uh sithon is pretty
nice to be fair though I like python
without numpy substantially less
fintech they don't let you do Python and
fintech
ah they ought
to my types
though but my types
I think this is actually got to be 18
camps
right um camps
what's your favorite video
game uh if we're going by hours played
old school
RuneScape that game is so incredibly
addictive to me that I have to ban
myself from playing it all summer that I
can do work
neutral
spawns neutral in range 1 through
five so this will just be like four
neutrals per Camp
right entity
data of neutral name
of
Y don't need this
anymore there 18 camps
right 99 wood cutting on use I actually
didn't play it when I was younger but
um I'm sure I don't have any screenshots
around do
I
uh hold on
actually I totally do on this machine
don't
I one
second the heck do they put
I don't know if these have audio or if
they're
muted
no well whatever I was trying to find
some cool Clips
but I played a lot of that game
I don't know Inferno cap and Master's
Helm if that means anything these
days spawn neutral
so what we're going to do is
I don't know where it's getting this
Rand int thing
from y
wait seven so
three yeah
I think this does it
right e
out of
bounds
oh yeah this doesn't give you you need
group as
well
group we in Camp I
think what's camp
no that doesn't work
there something like
this e
really
weird move
two possibly these are getting set to
zero still
where the heck is
it why is there all this scon spam as
well oh 4,000 something no that's
ridiculous uh presumably that's
uninitialized I don't know that's
weird
um no that looks correct uh but why
would it be that value did I mess up the
pre-processing hold on
these
are oh the Y's are totally screwed up on
this aren't
they yeah why the Y is totally screwed
up on
this I messed
have
wait bottom right Y is equal
to oh I forgot to do
over 130 over
130 right I forgot to Norm these
solid look at
that we got neutrals
here they Jitter
around now the question is are these
camps
accurate and the neutrals are going to
fight the creep that's
funny we can always see if they're
accurate
after we just leave it it's a
feature
no for
Target I think we need to set their team
to something different
right team
two let's just set them to team
two and then what we'll do
is
Target um
uh if target.
type equals
it's
awkward whole logic is awkward
I mean I could just do
CA neutral Target
and the difference is going to
be and then this works
what
happened crash and build calls
what did I not allocate
I don't know why it tried to
do I don't know why it tried to get
fancy here on
me Target
PID I don't know why it it did some
weird thing
there cool so
now this
works uh we have to adjust the positions
of the creeps I
believe I don't know why these guys are
stuck
here but cool
creeps still getting nomed are are
they wait did you see that I didn't see
that
happen creeps are still getting numbed
by
neutrals oh
yeah that's weird
well lots of little bugs to
fix let me see if this repo has the um
the way points in it somehow
so neutral
type process spawner
maybe path
Corner this PVP prefab is not
um and n PC first
Waypoint that looks good
right path corner and NPC DOTA
NPC interesting
feature
collection spawner good
bot spawner bad
top the
point I think these are the spawn
positions right
and these are the way
points so we can totally extract these
it'll take a little bit of
work but uh we should be able to get
these
into the Json and
then and then we should actually have
decent creep pathing right let me see
string they have 1 2 3 4 5
6 10 11 12 13 13 way
points that looks good
right bad mid bad
top good mid good top bottom yeah
slash
Corner yeah that's how they
work and uh they have a better pathing
algorithm than I'm using I'm sure sure
that they have like a star or something
I'm just literally going straight in
that direction until you hit something
cuz it's
faster uh so you know you could
technically lure the way that I'm doing
it you can technically lure creeps and
get them stuck on stuff but um other
than that it'll be pretty much one to
one half
corner
for
e e
or uh
path what is it
NPC
spawner what does it not tell you oh
yeah bot
okay yeah okay so we're going to
do uh
path
key
equals see path
ID then we're going to do
path
coordinates geometry coordinates I'm
surprised to Guess
that I'm assuming this is
XY the x is
like
this okay so we get the
coordinates and that's all we need for
this
save data of path key
equals path
cords and then there's the other one
right which
is spawner
data spawner data is features
geometry features geometry coordinates I
think oh but these have to get merged
right so spawner data
dude my eyes just glaze over trying to
read unformatted
Json I mean I've got a pretty low
[__] tolerance but I've dealt with
way more [__] than this
features and it was uh features geometry
I
believe spawner
data NPC of
ID what was it cords I think or
something features geometry
coordinates so it's the exact same
format it's just split into two
files geometry
coordinates Okay so we've got X and
Y and all we have to do is
save
data uh
spawner
key spawn
X spawn
y there you
go uh let's run
this
41 is it not ID I thought it was
ID features
geometry oh gross its
features right geometry
type properties name
I don't know how it auto completes it I
swear super Maven has an auto has an
audio plugin now it's probably loading
every file I open into memory or
something that's kind of crazy some of
the completions are really
nice uh save data list indices must be
slice
okay right because I put this
as
MPC
um way points path
cords yeah it's really nice
so I don't really think there's a reason
to be resistant to um
to autocomplete it's just like pay
attention to what it's
doing it's really well I especially okay
when you're working in Python um even if
you have an LSP it's like it's not
strongly typed so it's kind of
garbage
so especially for python it's really
nice to
have that's the main
thing cop it was beta yeah the
suggestions so this is super Maven I
highly highly suggest super Maven uh
it's way way way faster than copilot as
you can see the suggestions are almost
instantaneous I think these have
different numbers of way points on them
right that's a little bit concerning
but yeah so this is all of
the this is all the
data and we'll just load this into the
file right
I love writing a comment describing and
then it writes the whole
function I do that sometimes for really
basic
stuff I don't usually use it for that
though I usually use it for like typing
auto complete almost when like I'm just
implementing like really really obvious
stuff like if I have to set like every
property in a list of properties or
whatever it's really nice for that
NPC DOTA spawner good top thing yeah
public class JWT
parser it wrote an 800 line
class that's
funny I'm pretty sure though that
whenever it does that it's like it's
basically something that's been written
a bajillion times and you could just as
easily go grab one from online that's
more likely to be correct and not have
subtle errors in it
even this will like constantly
hallucinate dumb
stuff and this is generally pretty
good okay so way points is now going to
be not this because this is garbage
what was the dimensions of this
thing six Lanes by Whatever by two I'd
assume six Lanes like
202 okay
so now with the entity data we will just
do
for
spawner for
team this is now
NPC Goa
[Music]
honor good
is it evil or good in this
one bad
benefit of a strongly typed language is
most of the time
the bum uh suggestions are compiled time
errors yeah
Fair benefit of a weekly typed language
is just or a dynamically typed language
is just there being less code overall
for there to be bugs in
Prix
suffix uh
spawn
Lane zero
zero entity data key spawn
y spawn X and then
four
if entity data of key
one what the [__] what is this garbage
suggestion I minus
one be if
y equal Z
break points
Lane
I YX
okay I think this loads the way points
in
okay at the very least if I'm going to
have my language be strongly typed I
want it to be fast which is What's
Happening Here
like I will I ref I just flat out will
refuse to write I'm not writing
typescript and I'm not writing um normal
python code with type hints like no
point
way points here is
good so now I think that when I spawn
stuff in for
we have to specify a lane don't
you with
this net Jitter does some really cool
stuff these days di with code that runs
faster than C compiled
code that's
cool yeah I've done C I mean I've done C
in unity before if that
counts
um here I made this
oops not this one this not Unity older
client why my updates thing not
work website broken uh
oh browser's broken it looks
like runtime code path statistics to
recompile code that's cool
okay so this this client right here this
was written in
unity was the she
C and it could render some bigger Maps
as well there's an
overhead really big map
this needs to go to a Lane right
hey JBL
welcome we are currently
adding uh neutral camps full map and
we're fixing the pathing for these new
maps the new
map it's really
cool as soon as I fix the pathing here
you'll be able to see it with the
respawn I
mean um
so this is fine for like respawning the
player I
guess how you fixing pathing um cuz this
is now the actual DOTA map and I loaded
the way points that the actual creeps
and DOTA use so
just like
that
mhm
so so obnoxious
I hate copying and pasting so much damn
code well self.
waypoints Lane 0 0
and zero and
one Andals
brand what is it percent 7 minus 3 I
believe okay so this is going to spawn
near
here you get valid pause equals
true valid
pause move
to
YX um
[Music]
F valid
pause has got to be true anyways this is
fine whatever
all right
one
second all
right so
so spawn at y spawn X
right empty valid
pause it works looks like it's fine
we also have to do I forgot the um when
you respawn the
creep you have to set the way point
to to the.way point got to be set to
one then creep
half
e e
the thing is the way there are different
numbers of way points now so
key error
zero
oops the heck
there we go
key error zero y but do we have a
print uh right we have to set way points
like
this no wa it's key
way so much fumbling around with this
right
so other way around here
if minus one not
in you just
break as soon as I get this working I'm
taking a break to go grab a
shake
hungry but hopefully this works Maybe
boom um the creeps appear to have
spawned in the wrong
location spawn creep you give it a lane
now now don't
you what
happened what
happened damn this map looks yeah I'll
show you so it's going to look way
cooler when the creeps are
working this is just the DOTA map like
we loaded this from DOTA data
so it's missing the trees and stuff but
this is just the full DOTA
map towers are gone again too damn it
okay well that's got to just be a over
that's like an off by whatever
error let's fix the darn creeps
[Music]
way points Lane
zero move to
YX
points oh wait this is only three lanes
right
so this needs to be three times team
plus
Lane come on work
okay
why we still have the uh NPCs they're
all spawned you can see that they're
spawned in roughly the right spots even
but
um huh
3 * TM plus
Lane I
print
Lane one has one way way point one way
point one way they all have one way
point
so yeah it's just
um so way points equals entity data key
way
points I in
range Len way
Points Way points of
I then way points I +
one we just weren't adding the way
points
correctly but should have still spawned
them I would have
thought maybe not
uh the they got out now the mid ones got
out interesting
Lane 0 12 8 11
771 oh the start positions are
wrong Maybe
now okay nice
so now this actually looks like it
works we have the teams
uh this is not going to run for long
enough so I'm going to kill this so that
I can run it for longer
here and we're going to see how it
looks okay so missing Towers but let's
see how the NPCs
look so they are getting stuck at looks
like some of them are getting stuck at
least the top ones are
fighting and then they just stop
that's
weird hm it's very
close something's weird
though I'm going to add a debug type
and I'm going to add uh
here
debug so uh self.
grid here let's just do
yals one
y
x soft.
Grid in
y set this to debug
right and
then
upgrd
debug and then debug Point here is going
to be
not
this uh we'll do like
cyan wees that
right let's try this
this is way points
okay so let's see where the way points
go come
on perfect
so it's not letting me I think it's not
spawning the
agents but let's
see so this
is this is where we have our way points
I think that they this is for both
sides
so little odd
oh I know why this would prevent them
from
spawning I could
do nine
here minus four I don't know if this was
going to fix
anything kind of a big range get big
radius to spawn
so that doesn't help
um I think this is is totally screwed up
right here
differing Dimensions yeah
okay I think these need to be
substantially larger
right it's 30
what's it -
two
two maybe like
this possibly these boxes are just too
small
still no
like what even is this
one two
three this is like
eight I can't tell where the hell it's
okay what I'm going to do is I'm going
to just take a look at this this is here
can't even do it that way can I
the
hell why the hell is there's no open
with option is like way down in the
menu
okay so divide by
two 12 and 15
it's like 12 and 15
right I don't know why the spawns are
not exactly symmetric
what did I say
here 15
Plus Grand percent
uh
minus
5 okay try this
still
no
so I see this team spawned
here
right team zero
128 -
15 x - 12 I don't know how that's even
valid
code how the heck is that
oh oh yeah I know that is valid code
stupid but
okay so now I
have I don't think that these are the
things that are screwing it
up I think it's the uh
it's got to be the spawning of creeps
right this
thing let me just make sure oh we got
better spawning out of that so that's
nice
okay so it is the spawning of creep
waves or at least uh let's see if it's
the pathing or the spawning
okay it's the spawning
okay so you
spawn
idx and
Lane then this calls a respawn
creep re respawn
reap and then what we're going to do is
we're just going to
print Y and
X see what the hell it thinks it's doing
okay well I had to kill the whole
container to get that to
work 94 and 15
is that
bad if I multiply by
two roughly right 94 is going to be like
180 190 like
here 15 is like here isn't it
is that what I I
printed y comma
X so
90 somewhere here and 15 is like
somewhere
here I mean is it just like slightly off
or something
well I'll tell you what we'll
do we
will we'll
do self.
grid this is going to be
debug
okay and then we're going to make this
like way larger so this is going to
be uh
15 and then minus
7 so
hopefully hopefully now the creep can
spawn come
on and still you can't spawn these
bloody things
along with these
bastards
ridiculous okay what if I do this
now it just works
and most of them actually path what
looks like
correctly and then they get stuck on
this Waypoint
really I don't think these are
correct hold
on good
top Okay so
they end up on the other side of the
map like they're supposed
to so they go up first few way points
are
up and then this is like a corner wayo
it looks like if they're turning a
corner here so they have a few more way
points around the
corners quite a few way points around
the
corners and then there yeah this is
definitely valid
good
mid
is yeah definitely they end up pretty
much at the
fountain this is bizarre
really really weird that
the well first of all this is me stupid
here this is
YX so let's fix this that's one bug
fixed
and
then and then what do we say we
say end Waypoint creep
Target what do you usually use syon for
do you write the entire environment or
it or what do you think it is most
useful for it compared to P yes so I
write the all of the logic of the
environment in this um probably there's
a little bit too much stuff in it now so
I'm of the init stuff should be done in
Python um but I write all of the
performance critical logic of the
environment in syon
and compared to pbind um scon has a lot
of nice
advantages first of all you can mix in
slow operations if they're rare so like
let's say you rarely have to do
something but you don't want to have to
write it out like really exhaustively
you can use high level Ops on stuff I
use this quite extensively and uh no
more complicated simulators uh it
completely bypasses pbind so you don't
have to write any pine Shenanigans which
makes it way easier for people to work
with uh and also the code just ends up
looking a lot simpler I mean it's
basically if you're using it naively if
you're using it simply it's essentially
um python with types and it has really
really really good numpy support like
they have u m views which are
essentially C arrays that have numpy
array slicing syntax uh there's
essentially a built-in entity component
system with numpy structured arrays that
mirror into C structs which is awesome
so lots of lots of nice things that it
just gives you um
yeah lots of good things for
cython how much faster is it than
regular python it is native c-s speed
when optimized correctly native c-s
speed and why not use it for
algorithms uh because well you are using
it for algorithms well not syon you're
using C++ for the algorithms technically
right all of the network calls are in
um are in pytorch right which is backed
by C++ and Cuda so already is
what is going wrong
here uh lost my train of thought I'm
trying to remember what the heck was
going wrong
here was it just me trying to figure oh
I was trying to figure out the way
points
we'll give him one
extra no we'll give them one extra uh
creep
path oh well this is the issue right
here
so they only had five way points
all right scyon what you got for
me we have some cool demo here or the
agent still going to be
stuck I think some of them are still
stuck right
that's
weird Okay so they path I don't know why
they're pathing here this is weird
so these ones attack
here and then they attack
here
um I have to watch what happens when
that crashes I think I have an idea of
what's happening but I don't I'm not
positive I think it's up here maybe when
this one goes here
no maybe it's one that goes up
here let me just
watch Okay so that red one there is
actually pathing on the the Top Lane is
pathing well it looks like
right Top Lane is pathing all the way
down and it passed to the
Fountain where it's going to fight this
uh player character it's going to lose
to the player character of
course and we have sever
several oh they're just AGG gring to uh
to neutrals that's all that's happening
yeah minion shouldn't be fighting
neutrals that's all that's happening and
there are a couple pixels up here which
are uh just a little too close for
comfort
um let's
do okay so
red up
okay creep AI is gets entity
hopefully this now looks good we'll have
a cool demo I will then go get myself a
shake take about five minutes maybe six
or seven to do that and then we will uh
Implement leveling and other things for
the next few
hours but should be a very nice demo
let's
see
so
here yep the agents go straight through
these debug objects get in the way just
ignore those we will uh you know those
will be removed we're missing towers
still but the creeps are going to meet
they meet where the creeps are supposed
to meet right
let's actually get rid of the debug way
points because they're getting in the
way okay get ready this is going to be
cool
you still using the Jitter logic
yep we do it this
way
so they fight in the
middle they fight on the top and my
camera's covering it but they fight on
the bottom
two uh White agents
one they're going to continue pathing in
towards the
fountain and they are going to stop
right where the uh that's where the
Nexus or whatever should
be you get some
fighting minor you know minor things
that could be improved but this is
pretty darn solid I'd say
neutral
camps
waves full DOTA
map mini
mooba mini
MOBA it pretty
cool yeah it's pretty
cool here comes next wave
I don't like how they get stuck on stuff
so often we might just trim a couple
pixels here and there from the original
map just to make it a little easier for
U minions to
path but look at
that tell me that's not
awesome that is so
cool okay I'm going to leave this uh I'm
going to leave this up and it's going to
eventually probably crash or something
but I'm going to go uh grab a shake do a
couple of quick things and then I'll be
right back and we will
[Music]
Implement oh a bunch of stuff we'll
probably play it a little bit to test it
we'll Implement uh we'll fix the towers
cuz the towers are all messed up we'll
do
leveling maybe we'll do some
balancing but this is actually
like this is not terribly far from being
a complete thing already
um I mean this is actually pretty darn
close which is
cool I'll be
back
e
e e